---
title: Management Science: Notes 2014-05
tags: ["management science", "paper reading notes"]
notebook: Paper Reading Notes
---

May 2014
--------

#### Working Harder or Hardly Working? Posting Performance Eliminates Social Loafing and Promotes Social Laboring in Workgroups

by Robert B. Lount Jr., Steffanie L. Wilk

Source: Management Science

* Studies show that group members experience a diffusion of responsibility and individuals reduce their effort and become less productive compared with working alone. This is often referred to as "social loafing" or "free riding". For a review, see

        Karau and Williams 1993

* In recent years, researchers start to document "social laboring" —- when working in a group can lead individuals to increase effort and be more productive compared with individuals working alone. For reviews, see

        Kerr and Hertel 2011
        Larson 2010
        Weber and Hertel 2007

* Motivations of individuals in a group depends on two main factors:
    * How necessary is his/her contribution to the group.
    * How does his/her performance compare to others in the group.

* This paper argues that:
    * On one hand, when posting individual performances, employees working in groups will increase motivation, i.e., social laboring.
    * On the other hand, when there is no posting of performance, employees working in groups will be inclined to reduce their task motivation, i.e., social loafing.

* My thoughts:
    * The results are quite intuitive:
        * If there is no public posting of each individual's performance, it encourages laziness as there is no negative impact for the individual, and things get done by others anyway.
        * If there is public posting, people tend to try harder either to avoid negative image of free-riding, or to outperform other group members.
    * In many situations, instead of posting performances, a more appropriate way is to have group meetings and ask group members to present their works. This is an alternative way to make the performance "salient" to other group members.
    * Another alternative might be to post the achievements and milestones accomplished of each group member on a group screen. This is an acknowledgement of people's work, and also an implicit motivation for people who are lagging behind.


- - - - - -

#### Measuring the Performance of Large-Scale Combinatorial Auctions: A Structural Estimation Approach

by Sang Won Kim, Marcelo Olivares, Gabriel Y. Weintraub

Source: Management Science

* This paper studies the combinatorial auctions: multiple firms bid for multiple items simultaneously in a one-round first-price auction.

* The case they pay special attentions to is the economy-of-scale effect. A firm could lower its costs if winning multiple bids because of the cost synergy: one fixed setup cost, manufacturing multiple items.

* To refresh the memory of the model for auction game: auctioneer attempts to maximize total revenue. We have multiple bidders, each bidder knows his/her own private costs but not others' costs. They assume a distribution (either from past observations or assumptions) of their opponents' bids (a function of costs and bidding strategies). Then they choose their best strategy.

* Key first-order optimality condition for a bidder:

        b = c - ([dG(b)]^T)^{-1} * G(b)        (*)

    where `b` is the bidding vector of item combinations (i.e., `b` consists of the bid for each possible combination of items. It's size is up to 2^N - 1 where N is the number of items), `c` is the cost vector of item combinations, `G(b)` is the a matrix of winning probability of each bidder and each item using bid `b`, and `dG(b)` is the Jacobian matrix (derivative) of `G(b)` with respective to `b`.

    The first-order condition (*) shows that the optimal bid is cost `c` plus a cost markup term `-([dG(b)]^T)^-1 * G(b)`.

* The paper suggests a two-step process to estimate `G(b)` for a bidder and that bidder's cost vector:
    1. Use historical bid data to estimate the distribution of bids of all bidders.
    2. Use simulation to estimate the cost vector of each bidder.

    To be more specific, the simulation generates bids from the bid data, and determine who wins which bid. Then it averages over a large number of simulation results to get `G(b)` and the Jacobian matrix. Finally, use (*) to get the estimate cost.

* My thoughts:

    The paper is quite technical in some parts mostly due to the complexity of first-price auction. But it's great to read through it and jog the memory of auction games with incomplete information. The basic settings of these games and a possible solution are now quite clear to me and hopefully will be helpful when I encounter similar problems in the future.


- - - - - -

#### Examining the Impact of Ranking on Consumer Behavior and Search Engine Revenue

by Anindya Ghose, Panagiotis G. Ipeirotis, Beibei Li

Source: Management Science

* The paper studies the ranking effect, the interaction between ranking and rating, and personalized ranking effect.

* Data set: 1) Approximately one million online sessions from Travelocity between November 2008 and January 2009, and 2) randomized experiments using a real-world hotel search engine application.

* Goals of study:

    1. Examine the position effect in product search engines, conditional on its interaction with product ratings.
    2. Examine the effect of different ranking mechanisms on product search engine revenue.
    3. Examine how different kinds of personalized ranking mechanisms in product search engines affect consumer behavior and search engine revenues.

* The main conclusion are:

    1. A consumer-utility-based ranking mechanism can lead to a significant increase in overall search engine revenue.
    2. Significant interplay occurs between search engine ranking and product ratings. More expensive hotels are more sensitive to the online ranking effect. On the other hand, hotels with a lower customer rating are more likely to benefit from being placed on the top of the screen.
    3. An “active” personalized ranking system (wherein users can interact with and customize the ranking algorithm) leads to higher clicks but lower purchase propensities and lower search engine revenue compared with a “passive” personalized ranking system (wherein users cannot interact with the ranking algorithm).

* Approach: They build a model with multiple variables, such as Rank, Rank^2, Page, Price, Rating, Review Count, Total Number of Hotels, and Brand. They chose the functions using various equations from the literature. Then they fit it into a hierachical Bayesian model, and use MCMC to estimate the coefficients for the sum of all these variables.

* Noticeable points from other studied mentioned in this paper:
    * A consumer-utility-based search engine ranking system can lead to an increase in consumer surplus.

            Ghose et al. 2012

    * The paper finds that utility-based ranking mechanism not only maximizes the surplus for consumers (Ghose et al. 2012) but also maximizes the revenue for search engines.

    * Rank order and page number are significant determinant of clicks on the results of a search engine query.

            Rutz et al. 2012, Ghose and Yang 2009, Jerath et al. 2011, Rutz and Trusov 2011, Ghose et al. 2013

    * Rank has a significant and nonlinear effect in the context of keyword advertising. Meanwhile, negative effect of rank on CTR increases at a decreasing rate.

            Ghose and Yang 2009, Agarwal et al. 2011, Baye et al. 2009

    * User ratings affect click-through rates on search engines.

            De los Santos and Koulayev 2013, Yao and Mela 2011

    * Product brand can influence consumers’ perceptions of quality and willingness to buy.

            Dodds et al. 1991, Nevo 2001

* My thoughts:
    * It is an interesting conclusion that using a consumer-utility-based ranking can also lead to a higher revenue. This implies that the search engine revenue is more or less in line with consumers' preferences. Note that this does not mean to let consumers customize with various options individually, but to use a central formular.
    * Critics: The model presented in this paper is a bit too complicated. Even it is possible to verify each model they use by showing that they all lead to small error, it is still possible that the overall model suffers from a large error margin.
    * This paper is a typical "business analytics" paper. Seems these papers are popular online lately.
    

- - - - - -

#### Hierarchical Bayes Models: A Practitioners Guide

by Greg M. Allenby

Source: online, found through Google search

**Purpose:** The previous paper (Examining the Impact of Ranking on Consumer Behavior and Search Engine Revenue) uses hierachical Bayesian models. I found this guide to learn the basics of the framework of hierachical Bayesian models.

* Hierachical Bayes models are widely used to analyze buyer behavior, advertising ROI, sales force effectiveness, etc.

* It starts from some researchers who use Bayes' theory to incorporate educated guesses about the likelihood of something happening, and then making that prediction better by factoring in the results from rigorous, controlled experiments.

* Bayesian method is a useful tool for modeling multi-faceted, non-linear phenomena such as those encountered in marketing. The problem with marketing data is that it is characterized by many "units" of analysis (e.g., many respondents, households or customers), each with just a few observations. 

* Hierarchical Bayes models are really the combination of two things: 1) a model written in hierarchical form that is 2) estimated using Bayesian methods.






